# Robert Ferguson

**rmferguson@protonmail.com | (253) 266-7050 | Seattle, WA**

## Summary

Jack of All Trades and Master of Several, with 10 years of broad industry experience. With tasks ranging from "Get over a billion data points into a database annually" to "Help the C-Suite automate across their entire business", I'm as comfortable managing a project as I am writing the code for it.

## Work Experience

| **Position** | **Company** | **Notable Tech** | **Dates** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| L5 / Software Engineer | **Amazon Kuiper** (via Moschip) | C, Bash, Embedded systems, AWS | March 2025 - Present |
| Career Break | **Side Projects & Certifications** | Various technologies, certifications | August 2023 - March 2025 |
| Senior Software Engineer | **Aquarium Learning** | Python, TypeScript, React, Flask, GCP, Auth0 | August 2022 - August 2023 |
| Technical Account Manager | **UiPath** | .NET, SAP, SalesForce, Azure | March 2021 - August 2022 |
| Sales Engineer | **UiPath** | .NET, SAP, SalesForce, Azure | November 2018 - March 2021 |
| Lead Backend Software Engineer | **Efficient Era** | Python, Django, AWS, Selenium, ML | June 2018 - November 2018 |
| Backend Software Engineer | **Efficient Era** | Python, Django, TypeScript, Angular, AWS | July 2016 - June 2018 |
| Object-Oriented Programming Tutor / Facilitator | **University of Washington** | N/A | April 2016 - June 2016 |

## Accomplishments

### At the Amazon Kuiper Project, I...

- Implemented multithreading in an internal signing tool, increasing throughput by ~150%, 3 days ahead of schedule, with no negative impact to customers.

### During my Career Break, I...

- Developed multiple side projects including a Python asynchronous code runner, a translation tool for personal projects, and a self-proclaimed research project involving Cursor.
- Pursued relevant certifications to stay current with industry standards.

### At Aquarium Learning, I...

- Designed and wrote the User Role framework, allowing users to self-serve most interactions with the service.
- Implemented status reporting into our GCP DataFlow Pipeline, reducing incoming customer tickets by ~50%.

### At **UiPath**, I...

- Designed cirriculum for large telecommunications company to automate device provisioning, helping secure an 8-figure annual deal.
- Maintained a consistent 96% customer satisfaction rate while also increasing average deal renewal size by 16%.
- Wrote the original Python interaction demo.

### At Efficient Era, I...

- Was promoted for technical excellence and leadership qualities, leading the team on the shift to Python 3.
- Designed and implemented the Alerts System, alerting customers to problems with their Amazon listings within the business day.
- Wrote the internal mocking tool for MWS Data, increasing development throughput and reducing impact to customers.

### At The Unversity of Washington, I...

- Helped students taking the Programming Principles course score ~0.7 GP higher than their peers not taking my course.

## Core Competencies

### Languages & Frameworks

- **Python**      -   Django | FastAPI | Flask | SQLAlchemy
- **TypeScript**  -   React | Node.JS
- **C99**         -   pthread | XInput | SDL2

### Infrastructure

AWS | GCP | Azure | PostgreSQL | Docker

### ...and more!

Cloud Native Applications | Agile Development Methodology | Asynchronous Code | API Development | CLI Tool Development

## Additional Project Highlights

### Amazon Kuiper

- Engaged with multiple interdisciplinary teams to get replacement parts signed off and to rocket in time for flight.

### Aquarium Learning

Assisted with multiple customers onboarding and sales cycles as an engineering point of contact.
Co-architect of backend systems during transition to the "Tidepool" product.

### UiPath

Advised multiple firms for automation projects, saving over 100,000 employee-hours annually for larger customers.

### Efficient Era

Assisted in implementing the MWS reporting life-cycle into our software.
Helped write the necessary logic to legally abide by GDPR.

## Side Projects

### Pulsar
Ground-up asynchronous code runner for python integrating file handling, threading and multiprocessing IO. Slotting in Pulsar over the built-in AsyncIO runner generally reduces runtime by over 20%, e.g. from 5 to 4 seconds, with no further modifications.

### RPGCLI
Homemade tool for helping translating games made in RPGMaker by marking the correct fields within the data files with unique tokens. Built for a group of enthusiasts who reached out.

### Unnamed Twitch.tv Project
Website built using FastAPI and React, gathering user information and suggesting streamers to follow using ML models generated by Scikit Learn, powered by information from the Twitch API.